Welcome to another week in AI.
Things have been busy.
We'll be looking at big releases from big companies this week,
including claw-chipping their version of Memories.
Spoiler alert, it's the best implementation I've seen so far.
Google AI Studio releasing a plethora of models,
all in one interface, in their revamped Google AI Studio,
OpenAI shipping a browser,
and so much more in this week's episode of AI News you can use
to show that rounds up all of this week's AI releases,
filters by the ones that are available,
and then we discuss and test the ones that are relevant.
Let's go.
Let's talk about memories in general.
You probably know these from within ChatGPT.
In ChatGPT, they're under personalization
and down here memories.
They're automatic way of gathering information about you,
and then your new chats include that information.
Claude now shipped their version of this,
but it is way different from what we've seen
within ChatGPT, and I would even argue different
from any other AI out there.
If I go to settings, then capabilities,
and scroll down somewhere in the middle,
you should find this new Memories feature.
As you might already notice from ChatGPT,
there's two options, one of them,
where you allow it to look into past chats,
and the second one, where it proactively creates
new memories from past chats.
And this is kind of the big difference.
The first time I saw this, all of these memories
were pre-generated in here from the past chats,
and then you could edit them by talking to Claude
and saying something like, remove this,
and then we'll remove it.
But let's get to the differences here
and why I think this is superior
to the ChatGPT implementation as of now.
First of all, it separates memories that are just about me
from ones that are about recent things
that might have been working on.
You can see that here in this top-of-mind category,
it talks about some recent chats that I had.
If you saw the ChatGPT Atlas video,
you would have seen that I was generating images
of Connor McGregor with Claude as a demo for Atlas,
which we'll talk about in a second.
And it shows that here.
It says that, hey, Igor is working on
content creation projects,
including developing social media captions
for MMA fighter content.
This is not what I usually do,
but I absolutely love that it's categorized
under top-of-mind here, whereas in ChatGPT,
this would just be another memory
that in terms of hierarchy would be evenly as important
as this core work context for me or personal context,
especially the personal context
doesn't change that quickly.
Whereas my latest chats changes on a daily basis.
And this is why if you've been following the channel,
you will know that I'm not the biggest fan
of memories in ChatGPT because me trying stuff
will often pollute all my other chats.
I'm not a content creator for MMA fighter content,
but ChatGPT might assume this very quickly
if I have memories on,
but here it's categorized under top-of-mind.
And it shows, I try this in a bunch of chats.
If you ask it about yourself or your work,
it's never gonna pull up these top-of-mind things.
And if it does it,
it will know that this is just something
you've been trying recently
and not a core part of your identity or your work.
If I ask it what it knows about me,
it recites the memories and you can see,
it does point out that I've been working
on a content creation project relating to this,
but it knows that I've been only working on this
rather than it being a part of my core identity
if you ask Claude.
Okay, so you might consider that a nuance,
but here's the fact that makes this so amazing,
in my opinion.
These memories get rebuilt on a daily basis.
You can see it up here.
The summary is regenerated each night
and does not include projects
which have their own specific memory.
So if I work on different things,
this will update every day
and Claude will simply have context
on what I've been kind of trying lately,
which changes every day,
whereas in ChatGPT it's static.
Once you work on something, it goes into the memories.
And yes, they added a feature
where things might get deleted last week,
but I found it to be a bit random
and this just works so much better for me.
And yes, this also works for projects.
So if I go into my AI education project,
which I set up to manage a lot of the B2B initiatives
that we're doing now,
you can see it's generated memories in here too,
that it also updates every day
if I do anything within this project.
Interesting thing I wanna highlight
that also here, these categories of context are dynamic.
So depending on the project,
depending on what you're working on,
these change and morph,
depending on what kind of memories
would be relevant to the given project.
And most of all, and this is just a personal feeling,
when you work with Claude, it just seems to work
and it knows the right type of information.
It's not too much, but it's also not too little.
And as I said, the stuff that might be relevant,
Claude knows that it might be relevant
because it's just the top of mind things
that you've been doing and not a core part of your journey.
So yeah, I really wanted to get my thoughts on this out
because I think this is an essential part
of your experience and tools like this.
And context management is everything
when it comes to getting good results here.
And honestly, this is the first time I see memories
where I'm excited about using them
rather than slightly anxious on what will chatGPT save
and how will that distract my next chat experience?
That's why by default, I kept memories off within chatGPT
and I just manage my context manually.
Long story short, this feels different.
Claude memories are available as of now
for all max users, that's their $200 plan
and it's coming to the pro plan,
which costs $20 a month soon.
For users, don't get this.
Unfortunate, but that's how it usually goes
with these features that actually make a difference.
Honestly, just this, it's probably not worth the money.
You can just craft the context yourself.
If you're enjoying this, make sure to leave a like.
It really helps the channel, but now let's move on.
The next release is also on Claude, super interesting one.
For watching this channel,
you probably already know about Claude codes,
what many people consider to be the best AI coding assistant
and many people also use it for marketing tasks,
product management, chatGPT alternative,
but it has been notoriously challenging to use,
especially for non-technical people
because you needed your terminal to run it,
which can be intimidating, that's very understandable.
Well, now they released a web version.
All you need to do is connect this to your GitHub,
and there you go.
You don't need a terminal.
You can just do things in here.
The one requirement here is you do need to know
the very, very basics of GitHub
because it works within existing repositories.
So for example, I could take the No Machine,
which was a project on a previous video.
And for that, you need to Claude GitHub application
installed in your repository, which is as simple as this.
Okay, so that was the setup and that's it.
Now I can work with that repository,
build out my project right here in the web browser.
And yes, this also works on a mobile device,
which for the first time makes it really simple
to work with Claude code on the go.
Furthermore, you could go into other repositories
and start chats in parallel
and do multiple things at once really easily
or without your desktop looking like this.
As per usual, you should be careful
with multiple instances of Claude code on one project.
And as already mentioned, I think the best part here
is that it's really easy to use on the go now.
So now we can keep vibe coding useless applications
wherever you go.
Okay, that's a joke.
There's definitely a lot that you can do
that makes a ton of sense,
but maybe a good joke has a bit of truth to it.
Okay, so one of the biggest gaps with AI right now
is the following.
It's great at thinking,
but when it comes to actually doing things
like sending email or updating an ocean page,
most people still end up clicking
through 10 different tabs or apps.
And that's why I'm excited to show you Rube by Composio,
the sponsor of today's video.
It's basically a super assistant
that lives within any AI chat application
that you already use.
In other words, it's like glue between the apps
and something like chatGPT, Claude, Cursor or VS Code.
You name it.
And it lets you control over 500 apps
with just natural language.
So instead of building an automation
and struggling with connecting various APIs,
I can just say, find emails from the last 24 hours,
summarize the important ones and mark promos as spam.
And Rube just does it.
It even remembers you across various applications.
You just authorize once and then run Gmail actions
straight from Cursor, Claude, Manus, wherever.
For creators and builders, this can be huge.
I can pull comments and likes from various platforms,
drop them into a Google Sheet and flag the top posts.
All with one prompt, no contact switching required.
And if you want to, you can go way further.
For example, you could publish a Figma design,
auto resize to Instagram, TikTok, X and YouTube
or scrape Reddit trends and create posts based on the findings.
As you know, I'm a big fan of open standards and MCPs.
And if you want a quick way to start with Rube,
you can add the streamable NCP endpoint,
Rube.app slash MCP or just hit the Rube.app
and plug it into something like N8N
or any other automation app that you might already be using.
It's SOC2 compliant with audit logs,
so it's enterprise ready too.
If this sounds interesting to you,
try Rube for free at getrube.link slash AI Advantage.
Thanks again to Composio for sponsoring this video.
And now let's look at some more AI news that you can use.
The next big release this week has been chatGBT Atlas.
And if you're not familiar, that's our brand new browser
joining other AI browsers in this category
like Proplexity's Comet.
If you're interested in the details
and how it performs in practice,
I created a separate video that you could check out
on the channel.
But I did wanna follow up after a few days of using it
and that is the fact that for me personally,
this is not a sticky product.
It's not something I really find myself wanting to use.
And I've been even looking for specific ways
to utilize this.
And usually the most interesting ones
are the AI browser using other AI tools.
And then maybe moving it over to something
like a Google Sheet or a Word document.
Again, I showed that workflow in the separate video,
but here this example actually combines another story
we'll be looking at today, which is Google's new AI studio.
And he just prompted Atlas to open the new Google AI studio
and then build the app within it automatically.
I'm sure you can get creative and find ways
to get some value from this,
but it's probably not the game changer
that many people made it out to be when it came out.
But there's one more prompt that I wanted to share
with you here.
Daniel from the team actually sent this to me.
He said, this can be quite useful.
Read this page, consider how it relates
with my areas of interest
and then give me a list of key points and insights.
This way you can kind of match
what context chatGPT has on you
and the content that you're looking at.
And this way it would kind of adapt it to you.
Now here it talks about a genetic system
requiring memory hygiene,
similar to what Klot does with the memory release, right?
But other than that, this is kind of good,
but nothing that you couldn't have done with chatGPT.
It's just a bit simpler in the browser
as the site is right in here.
And I personally do find these results here interesting.
We'll put the prompt in the description below.
You can try it for yourself
as this works on the free plans too.
For the next story, this could have been a quick hit,
but I actually wanna make it a proper thing
because this has been my number one feature request
for a while in chatGPT
and it's the ability to share projects.
Up until now, this was only accessible
to the enterprise plans as far as I'm aware.
And now all the plans, including the free users,
can share projects,
meaning if you built out your context in a project,
you can go ahead and finally share it with other people.
Just make sure to change the accessibility
of the project to anyone with a link
or you can put an email in here and they'll get an invite.
As you might have heard me say many times before
on this channel, I think projects are the most powerful way
to manage context.
But with this sharing ability,
this feature is a powerhouse
and now you can finally collaborate with people.
So one person gets to build it out
and everybody gets to use it as an assistant
on any sort of project.
It's a minor feature within chatGPT with a big impact,
at least for me and anybody else
who has been using this on a daily.
Another thing that is new this week
is Google overhauling its AI studio.
If you're not familiar, this is their developer interface
for their various models,
but really a lot of users and especially power users
have felt at home in here for quite a while.
Reason for that is all the new models come right into here
before they even hit the Gemini web interface.
And usually when new stuff comes out,
it's free to use in here.
And now they overhaul the entire interface,
so it's even easier to use various applications
all in one place.
If I go to the chat interface here,
you can see that I can switch between all their models.
Nano Banana for Image Generation,
Gemini 2.5 Pro for the smartest model.
There's even a video model,
although I do have to note that last week's release
of VO2.1 is not in here yet.
I'm sure that'll fall shortly,
but yeah, you can just do all of these things in one place.
So if I want videos and images of cats with hats,
I can be so efficient at creating them now.
This is incredible.
Seriously though, the chat is kind of nice
to have all the models in there.
And then here in this build section, you can build apps.
So I can build an app that adds hats
to various pictures of animals.
You could build this and it's gonna code up the whole thing.
You could save it right to GitHub or deploy it.
There you go, works as expected.
And of course, this remains the place
in which you retrieve your API key
to build applications on top of Google's AI offerings.
Okay, this week we have a bunch of quick hit stories
that are worth mentioning,
but maybe we don't need to spend multiple minutes on them.
Starting with the general availability
of the Cloud Desktop app.
I feel like this has been generally available already,
but they've updated it with a few features,
like voice inputs, a shortcut where you can invoke it
from wherever you are.
Just double tap the option button on a Mac.
You can easily bring in context
by screenshotting different windows.
One note about the voice inputs.
Honestly, it's quite bad.
It just gets punctuation, capitalization,
and some words wrong regularly,
nowhere close to what you might be used to,
from chatGPT or 11Labs.
Next up there, I've been some changes
to the guardrails on Sora2.
This is kind of an ongoing story that will keep developing,
as this has made a big impact in the mainstream.
So one thing that happened is that
Martin Luther King's estate
complained to OpenAI for disrespectful depictions.
And OpenAI banned the usage of Martin Luther King.
If you haven't seen them,
there were a bunch of videos
where he was in a grocery store.
My sister, I have a dream that one day
this slushie will be free for all who thirst.
Hey, sir, this isn't about dreams.
It's about paying for your slushie.
I mean, I thought it was hilarious,
but I entirely understand the point here.
So now OpenAI is apologizing for unintentional generations.
And there have been a bunch more
celebrity complaints like this.
Now OpenAI is slowly reeling it back in.
So yeah, as per usual,
some of these AI releases are most exciting and free
on the day of release.
Now the restrictions are coming in.
Then we also have Runway releasing various applications.
I mean, things like changing image styles is not novel.
Others are more interesting,
like removing objects in videos.
It's just making things that were possible
before more user friendly.
And I think for filmmakers,
these Runway apps are something you should definitely explore.
On a similar note,
they also released this workflow's view.
We've seen this many times before,
but Runway is just trying to be this platform
that has all of it.
So this is new,
also along with the new model fine tuning
for which you do need to sign up,
but I reckon this is gonna become a bigger thing over time
for filmmakers can fine tune their own models
on specific aesthetics and really make it their own.
Then we also have Proplexity moving
in every niche imaginable.
I mean, at this point,
they're just trying to be the Google of AI.
They have a language learning feature now.
So you could be learning languages with Proplexity.
Next up, I wanted to briefly feature something
that you might not be able to use,
but I thought was really interesting.
Channel 4 in the UK used the AI presenter
for the first time to kind of make the point
that people wouldn't even notice these days.
Just thought this was interesting
and I want to share it with you at the end of the segment.
She kind of revealed that she's AI.
Viewers were left in shock.
And then last, but certainly not least,
I wanted to show you this Google skills page.
And this is brand new,
but basically it's a platform to acquire AI skills
and a lot of this is free.
So you can just go into the catalog,
look at the different topics here.
Some of them are gonna be very technical and very concrete.
But if you go to these collections, for example,
and go to AI boost bytes,
they have these 10 minute lessons on various topics,
including little workflows or hacks.
As you know, this channel is all about uplifting people
by sharing this information.
And I think Google skills do this really well.
So feel free to check it out.
And that's really everything we have for this week.
A lot of practical things that I will be implementing
in my workflows and testing further.
I hope you found something useful or inspirational.
And with that being said, my name is Igor
and I hope you have a wonderful week.
